think it takes a second to boot up on
all the
platforms so we've got uh a few things
to do
today first of all
autoverse Sam is uh former collaborator
of mine one of
Julian's students I think he's
graduated maybe not anyways he does good
work
and this en though it looks a little
wonky is pretty cool under the
hood so I was going to see if we can
bind it to puffer Li it is in
Jack I'm probably going to try Jackson
CPU
mode we're going to try this
also I can be uh no flattery does work
so there you go Sam I'm adding a binding
for you partially because of this
comment uh oh wait it's open source
right is it released
star o it is tightly
coupled it's like this tightly coupled
Evo Loop right that might be hard
oh wait they've got a blender
end
ooh 100%
python let's see how this is going to
turn out for us I'm not willing to
invest the whole day into this to get a
subpar binding so if this is something
that is uh not feasible to integrate
with puffer the way things are now I
will sort of think about that and come
back to to it cuz I do have other things
I want to do today as well but if this
is something where it's reasonably
simple we will try
it good start fast
clone do we have
I imagine there's a setup
right no
packages uh okay let's just check to
make sure the setup is
reasonable I don't want this to break my
um I don't want this to break my
Docker that would be
annoying does the setup have the
requirements in
it package gen en
short need
flax
uh High 310 run through 11
time I'm going to Tweet at him and then
I'm going to try to figure it
out uh oh I hope I didn't miss a 10 a.m.
meeting let me
good wait
what how the heck does this have 94 on
it already I just started the
stream well
working oh yeah chat is working
cool thinking of a topic to do for a
thesis pick something that interests you
and is not going to require you to do a
whole bunch of work in a domain that
does not interest you
um it's very difficult for me to give
you like
i' need more specifics than that right
like I knew what I wanted to do in my
PhD going into my
PhD it's not usually the case for most
people most people kind of meander
around for a bit and then they find
something that they
like let's at Sam here
uh ml related does not narrow it down
too much needs to be that's still pretty
broad give Sam a follow by the way Sam
is awesome does cool
um I don't know which of these
requirements files is actually needed is
the problem and I don't want to install
GPU jacks by
mistake because it will screw up my
pytorch drivers and I need those for
Puffer that looks
fine but then there's this giant
requirements uh Pi
310 and this one looks like it's just a
pip freeze right yeah so this one I
don't want to install because this one
has yeah that'll break everything right
there um so I guess we're just going
to
requirements we'll try the base
requirements
I don't see any Cuda packages that's
base Jacks lib without Cuda which is
what we want we're not going to be
running Cuda
Jacks I actually want to run Jackson CPU
mode and see if puffer can make it
really
fast okay does have a uh demo I think
there was a a run command there just
wasn't an
install this one
here okay no module
T
I mean I floated around for a bit before
I I found RL like I did you can just
check my repos like I had this is the
scale of a project that I would
recommend for like somebody who's newish
to the area you can look at what I did
first of course things were a lot harder
back then packages weren't wor as fancy
you can probably be a little bit more
ambitious uh where the hell is
stars
yeah so this is my this was like my
first project this is on my GitHub um
this is no poster
2017 it was back then so nips
paper um I did like architecture work on
a simple data set I beat other things I
learned a bunch of stuff along the way
and I did some decent analysis this was
like a good scale of stuff I don't know
if you mean Master thesis or PhD thesis
those are two very different things like
one paper good scope for Master's thesis
PhD thesis obviously much
larger I did some computer vision as
well I did like differentiable
architecture
work okay so I'm a bit concerned here
that undergrad yeah so the the U that
project I just showed was um was from my
undergrad uh I would advise you to pick
something that is like small and
manageable within your skill set first
uh it's better to finish a project like
actually finish a project successfully
than to have a half finished
thing so like I don't know find
something cool like try to have like
there be one component of the project
that needs a lot of
work so if it's like you know trying to
get something working on a new data set
use a standard
model if it's like trying to make a
model for like a new type of model or
something use a standard data set and
that sort of a thing
don't try to like don't try to solve
everything at once that's a lot that is
a lot harder one of the things that's
hard with
puffer um I think I actually have to
install this giant requirements file
right yeah this is going to break
everything is the problem
so is TK not in
here I don't see TK in here
somewhere yeah if you haven't done model
Dev model Dev is good like just pick one
one specific thing architecture work is
less relevant I think in computer vision
these days um it's way more mature now
undergrad project is usually like get CV
working on you know a new problem like a
simple but like interesting new problem
is it's a classic sort of thing to
do um like find something that's
interesting that you think you could
solve with CV it's more application
heavy it's a good intro at
CPU can I just like start installing
these packages
manually what does it say that I was
missing
tter is it
TK I don't think that's
it let's not just be on installing
random
packages call
2024 oh it is TK
why did I get TKO
0.1.0 is it that I that versioning was
weird hey Joseph watched your PhD
defense a bit congrats thought it was
awesome and looking forward to seeing
thank you yeah these Dev streams are
going to be much more chill you're not
going to see like know super fast lots
of results but uh I figured I'm working
on cool stuff and may as well stream it
it's fun for me as
well okay what is wrong with t
I think this might be a fake tutorial
thing
right
TK oh is it an apt package python
3tk that's a 2011 post
this man Graphics are such a
pain I suggest everybody uses rib for
graphics it's just like what if you
could do graphics and have it not be
painful and
terrible oh that's
better hey okay that's something it was
just a system package
right
interesting it runs
though and he has a blender version of
this as
well let me see what the blender version
was where' the post
Go Go Star this guy's repo and also of
course Star Puffer lib if you haven't
helps me out a ton
um I don't think this is going to work
how do I get started with neural MMO I
want to learn about
RL okay neural MMO as it is now is a
really really hard place to start with
RL like you almost could not pick a
harder point to start start with puffer
try the uh maybe the snake Enver
whatever that's in the dev Branch maybe
just some of the simple ocean
environments get a feel for things then
come back to neural MMO I will have some
announcements soon that will make neural
MMO much easier to work with as well but
for now very very hard you want to do
multi-agent try out my snake en that's
really easy and you can train it with
like no
Hardware I am also rapidly rapidly
making uh fast M's for RL this is my
next big push is on
simulation um you don't need to do cart
pole you I have some nice nicer Ms than
that but
um I'm very rapidly working on high perf
simulation my next big thing is going to
be getting a whole bunch of different
really ultra high per simulations that
train at like a million steps per second
or at least several hundred thousand
depending on hardware and it's so close
to being done there's one that's not
announced yet that'll be soon um but
like the tech behind it is the same as
the tech and snake it just scales way
better than anybody's going to expect
and uh the one thing is I haven't
figured out continuous yet so it's
discrete environments for now actually
after I finish this today this same day
I'm going to be working on an engine for
continuous control uh ultra high
performance I want to see if we can make
control M's be million steps per second
minimum single CPU
core I think we can do it there are few
technical problems I haven't quite
worked out in my head yet there are few
things that are quadratic but we're
going to I mean you'll get to to see
that live if you're around it's going to
be a fun time for now I'm going to be
working with this thingy um I'm going to
only spend like an hour on this and if I
get stuck I mean if I'm getting stuck
I'm not going to spend more than like an
hour on this I'm just going to wait for
Sam to like reply and like get set up
things working um but I do want to add a
binding for
this I see that there like there aren't
any docks for this thing
yet Puff like gy but more
optimal um puffer works with gy I
actually I was so tempted to just
replace gy but it's it's so entrenched
at this point that I'm not going to be
able to quite do that uh it's you can
think of puffer is just something that
Sands all the rough edges off of the
existing stuff in RL and gets you a huge
amount of performance to boot like it
has high perf simulation Tech in it it
has high performance vectorization Tech
it has compatibility layers that make
multi-agent environments actually easy
to work with stuff like net hack easy to
work with it has test environments it's
got a bunch of stuff and everything is
done in just like this really brain dead
simple way where I'm not just adding
tons and tons and tons of layers of
abstraction around stuff it's based very
heavily off the way clean RL is
built cool to see that since I started
doing the um the joint stream though on
Twitter and uh YouTube that I have
people on both of those that's nice to
see I also actually this is live on
Twitch now as well I added that as a
third back endend
umj
Suarez live on here as
well I do need to actually get some Dev
done though let me
see what was the demo
file human end right
there's also a Discord discord.gg SLP
puffer which I'm very easy to get a hold
of on there as well uh this is only 59
lines
interesting this mode argument is
non-standard
I need to get like a more minimal thing
running out of
this
uh a Hydra
doain gen m/c
configs I'm definitely not adding Hydra
to this thing if I can avoid it
what are these
yamal and why are they going to the
environment
itself like I don't see any environment
parameters
game wait where's the n in it base
n of
config where's the NIT base
n gen m. utils
rules I think this might be a bit hard
to do right now the way this code is
structured
I might want to just really cut the
losses early and go start on the
continuous engine and just like ask Sam
to add um a make end function for me to
to like add a binding for
him I get why he has it this way though
because it's supposed to be like this
generative thing
and can do it in reset I can set up like
the different Evo m in reset for for
sure let me just add
him unless he's replied which I don't I
don't think this is his time zone
right I think I might want to just go to
the continuous control um The Continuous
control M or the continuous control uh
engine I think that's going to be a lot
more entertaining for people to watch
and I'm going to be a lot more
productive on it as well I think when
Sam it really since Sam knows his code
base it it shouldn't be very difficult
for him to add like just a make end
function and it's going to be way easier
than me trying to hack
okay let me update the stream title
we're going to do the continuous control
because I don't think I'm going to make
much progress in that and uh this will
be a lot more entertaining as well for
folks one
continuous High per continuous roll
engine upper
lib okay that updates the titles I don't
think it can update the one on uh twitch
I mean on uh
Twitter actually kind of cool to see
that if I start streaming at a
reasonable time lots of folks see this
that's nice um
let's talk about this
engine let's talk about this
yesterday hold on okay
very very basic continuous control
environment this was a sanity check to
add continuous control to puffer and
make sure that we can train policies in
puffer this took a few hours maybe it's
not perfect this in this case it's very
scared of going off screen because it
gets a big negative reward for going off
screen so not perfect but it looks like
it is correctly training
um I also have this grid environment
that I made which I would like to expand
on a bit more
but I want to do it in a little bit of a
different way than it's implemented
right
now I don't think can I run the dash Das
Baseline policy on
this no I can't run Das Das Baseline
because I changed the API since I I
trained it that's fine so I'll just show
the
environment this is the environment
right here it's just like a grid
environment there each pixel here these
are all agents they can move around and
you can train them to do different stuff
very very simple um and I could put
obstacles in here they can't move
through I can train them to spread out
if you check on my Twitter there are
like all sorts of cool gifts of these
things spreading out in interesting
ways you can very simply see how you
could Implement like fully Cooperative
fully adversarial mixed cooperative and
AD mixed adversarial simple tasks in
this but with a decent number of Agents
I do like to have stuff be multi-agent
um by default if possible not just
because that's how it is in the real
world but actually even though
multi-agent is this scary thing I have
found that a lot of multi-agent ends are
actually easier to train than single
agent once you get the infrastructure
right and puffer lib decidedly
does so what I wanted to do was think
about a way to do a continuous control
based engine like the grid EnV uh and
engine the grid and engine runs millions
of steps per second I'd like the control
one to do the same so what I'm going to
do is I'm going to just start
diagramming out the architecture of the
grid environment and I'm going to talk
through the pro the problems for
continuous control uh both for you as
well as I'm hoping that I'm going to be
able to solve this problem live I don't
know if I will I'm hoping that just
going through everything though it's
going to just come to
me let's open up Google
drawings so in the grid
environment uh continuous control
infra and let me make sure this is on
the side of this screen that is not
covered by my
camera that's good so in the grid
environment you
have a
grid we'll make this white we'll make
the
Border like this so you have a
grid and then you
have an
agent okay you have an agent
here and the way that the grid
environment
works is you get to
see in a
window around this agent doesn't have to
be a square
window send
backward does not have to be a square
window but you have some sort of window
around this agent that is the
observation and then internally there
are a couple different ways that you can
implement this you can have
a
uh the simplest conceptual way to do
this is you have
like how do I do
this yeah like
this okay the simplest conceptual way to
do this is you have your pixel agent
here
oops it's very hard to move this thing
the way like the handles are in this so
you have like your pixel agent here you
get your grid
here okay and then this is like
a uh a depthwise filter
like
this okay so you can get multiple
channels of data so if your agent has
multiple properties you just take this
crop out of here and there you have it
um there's a second way to do this which
is a little bit more efficient which is
that you can have
well the second way to do this is
to let me see how I can draw
this
yeah yeah the second way to do this I
will draw like
this is that you
have uh your environment
store store hid only you store only the
PID which is a player
ID so this essentially becomes a 2d
array of numbers and then you look it
you look this up inside of an array of
players so player
one
XY dot dot
dot
Okay so so if you do it this way
dot Okay so so if you do it this way when you move the player from cell to
when you move the player from cell to
cell you have to copy the whole set of
channels right from one to the other if
you do it this way you're only moving
the pit around and then the only time
you actually have to like materialize
this player data is when you go to
compute the observation window so
instead of slicing directly from a
representation like this you get
to uh you know you get to store a much
smaller representation where you're not
storing all the channels this is very
important for large maps and then you
materialize the data as you need this is
a little slower but it can still run you
know millions of steps per second one
core now the problem with both of these
approaches with
continuous is this slice operation
here so when you go
continuous there's no easy way to do
this slice right because there's no
internal
grid and if there's no internal
grid you really only have something like
this you have all the players in a 2d
array and 2D because of number of
attributes not row
column and that means that you have to
do like a nearest neighbor thing or a
distance check on all of the players to
see who is nearby which is
quadratic and then when you actually
make the observations the observation
data is much smaller than if you were to
have uh something like this right
because you don't have all these empty
spaces you just have maybe like 10
nearby players or something but the
architecture gets way more complicated
because now you want to do something
like attention over these players and
attention modules are very expensive
there's one good
project by Clemens absolutely cracked
project um open AI engineer who
basically did one of the coolest RL
projects I've ever seen as a side
thing uh and this project does where the
heck is
somewhere here's his blog
so you end up needing like entities so
like if these are all your players
player one player two player three
player four you end up needing to embed
them and then do like this attention
type operation over
them I don't think that there's going to
ever be a fast enough way of doing that
um for comparison with The Snake M that
I have the way that we make it really
fast
oh not the environment I need the
fast oh not the environment I need the uh the torch
go this is the architecture so conf conf
re flatten linear that's it well one
linear here lstm there is is an lstm so
it's not a trivial model but then linear
so
technically two comms two linear and an
lstm I don't think you're going to be
able to get attention faster than
that I could be
wrong possibly we should time
that um possibly we should time that
maybe we'll do that
today cuz it's just going to be like an
attention block it doesn't have to be a
full Transformer
right so the actual weights involved in
attention are the linear
projections uh annotated
thing yeah so the actual no not this
this is the two complicated where's the
freaking diagram it was in the original
paper yeah so like these Matt moles qkv
you do mat mole mat mole and no wait
where is this here this is what I was
looking for so the only thing that
actually has weights are these linear
layers so this is linear and then this
is a matrix mole here the scill do
product detention op I don't know how
fast this is but it doesn't add any
parameters so the network for this could
be pretty small but this thing blows up
memory quite a bit and I don't know if
that's going to be acceptable for our
use case
here um so we'll have to see about
that I would like to First resolve the
the nearest neighbor check
thing I am aware of one potential option
to do this which is quad
thing so you break up your environment
into like successively smaller group
and this
is computational efficiency of this is
very
good but there is still you know a
decent access cost to stuff like this
it's not
oen you know it's not
oen we want oen and ideally we want like
fast oen as well we want oen that
doesn't have a bunch of overhead in
it I'm just going I'm going to
actually real quick just chity this just
to make sure I'm not being stupid and
there is not an existing solution to
this we do that one second off screen
and I'll show
it in one
second
[Music]
okay gp24
I am building a high
bir and continuous control simulation
engine for reinforcement learning it
needs to run
Millions steps per second for CPU core
have a grid based one that
works discret
it computes OBS as
slices over a 3D tensor
of row
call num
attributes very
basic
continuous uh
positions these OBS
computation not simple
naively need to do a
quadratic search over
neighbors within a
window quad trees and things exist
that's still
not
um like n
any existing solution to
this or m i in New
Territory just to make sure that there
isn't some dumb thing that I'm not aware
of grid based
hashing okay so this is what I was
thinking of doing is discretizing into a
grid so that the actual uh position
positions and actions are continuous but
then for the purpose of observations it
goes into a grid that is correctly what
I would
expect there is optimization on nearest
nearest
neighbor as approximate nearest
neighbor this is a garbage suggestion
garbage suggestion garbage suggestion
okay
so the only real two things that I see
here as
possibilities
are
doing discretization into a grid not on
the state space so the state space
remains continuous the action space
remains
continuous possibly with discret options
if you'd prefer right but then the
actual um observations they get
discretized so when things move they
also get mirrored into a discretized
version of the state and then you slice
over the discretized version of the
state I
am pretty darn confident I could
Implement that pretty
easily it would produce
observations uh essentially identical to
the ones that we have now in their
structure we could use the same exact
neural network architectures I know that
I can train that at a million steps per
second downsides we don't get any
savings we don't get to like one of the
things I was hoping is that we would get
to have larger uh larger view ranges
because we wouldn't be limited by tiles
and also we have to discretize those
tiles to be pretty coarse um because you
are very heavily limited by the tile
view
distance
um it's definitely the safer starting
point definitely the safer starting
point other option would be to
essentially attempt to build a fast
purely entity based based
engine where the data that you're
getting back is just going to be like
the agents that you see around
you it's really kind of hard though to
represent data that way isn't
so like let's say that you have a wall
right like I want to draw a line that is
a
wall I I can do Collision checks against
that fine right like there's there's a
way I can do that decently
um I don't know if there's a good way to
put an observation of
that so
like in the continuous case hold on
right okay this is all the space I have
with my camera there um we have this
same
agent
right and it can get a circle crop or a
square crop whatever for the OBS if if I
just like put a line
here and I say hey the agent needs to be
able to observe this line what the heck
do I
do
right I know that people will do like
this Rangefinder type thing they'll do
like this what is it this Rangefinder
type op where they do like this and you
get like these whiskers or whatever
but that's not
particularly that doesn't seem like a
particularly good way of handling things
right those are like Ray casts that are
expensive to
well it's going to depend here on the
aspects of continuous
control that we really care about
right I think a lot of the continuous
control people care a lot
about having
a complex action ction
space like a multi-jointed robot that
kind of a thing that has to be
optimized the question is what other
stuff can we prune
out to make this type of a thing
fast so you know like if I make this
engine for Point agents originally how
can I structure this so that if I were
to make the agent like a little
simulated robot type thing that it would
still be relatively
easy to swap that
in if you're just going to
observe your own uh agent state is fine
like if you're going to observe like
your own joint angles or stuff like that
in the future that's easy those are
that's just flat
data if you want to observe other stuff
can you update what's this can you
update the observation each time an
agent moves yeah you can update the
observation each time an agent moves of
course but um I want to do this at a
million frames per
second so that's the the that is the key
like I can't be doing for every agent
raycast operations around it on every
frame I need to think of something
that's going to get I want to get to the
core of The Continuous control problem
without all the other stuff in the mix
that slows stuff
down that's the goal
here so if we just want
obstacle and
position if we just want like obstacle
and position
stuff we can probably just come up with
a way to discretize fast
right which if you think of it that's
kind of like just having a really low
Fidelity top down render of the
environment
idea so like maybe the objects are in
continuous space
we somehow
discretize we'll get we'll figure out
how to do that I'm
so okay in that
case barriers
things that are going to be hard with
this I'm going to move this so that you
can see behind the camera hold
on
challenges and I should delete this as a
concept because this is we're not going
to do it like
continuous space to low render
fast um fast Collision
checks I got to look into
that I think that might also be
quadratic right
that okay
um is there anything else that's needed
here discretize continuous
bace to render fast fast Collision
checks well obviously we're going to
need
to um
bull agent types we're going to need to
have not just like a point agent right
we should be able to stick like a point
agent or a sort of a robot type thing
into the same
environment
um I'll just have to make it 3D or
whatever
right and then we'll think about what
type of collision checks I need
let me just I'm not a continuous control
guy so let me um I just want to make
sure I'm not missing anything
here like anything that's like just
obviously common
knowledge I do many agent thems like
SE gy handle
okay continuous just all
right continuous Collision detections
physx is this something I can use or is
this going to be heavy for this little
demo and
body okay so I don't want GPU
acceleration or any of
this so I might need some of the
algorithms but I don't
want I don't need that
um the ENT Square thing is going to
drive me nuts isn't
it so I know that the naive thing right
is you can just partition stuff into
chunks and then you check for collisions
I think you technically you have to
check for collisions between uh anything
in like sets of three chunks or
whatever because they could be on the
boundaries that's probably a decent
start starting point rather than
something like an O tree or a quad tree
more
realistically so I can do the checks
naively and then once I want to
optimize I can
do a uh chunk base check
something like
that that
works
and I would guess that I just don't
do I don't do
lines right I don't do like OB other
obstacles in the scene just yet that
have non uh non like Circle or point or
whatever
geometries and then I figure out those
geometries
obstacles is there anything
smarter that I can do
technically I think I could use the
discretization right to check collisions
and stuff
if I just want like a super
lowfy
thing and I do like this lowii top down
render and then two things are on top of
each other in the lowf render then
they're going to collide
right so that's kind of like whenever
you move something in continuous space
you update the the LOI render and if
there's already something
there then you say no it's a collision
right that's like a
really that would be like a really high
perf way of doing lowii continuous
control and the Fidelity actually would
be variable because you know the the
finer you simulate the grid the better
the uh Fidelity is but then the more
observation data you're generating or
the more compute you're
using so it's not
bad
um so that would
solve that would solve the uh Collision
checks
issue discretization to continuous space
for the agents is very easy for
something like lines or whatever would
be more
complicated maybe not that complicated
to be
honest as long as they're
missing I mean the the uh continuous
control
Community generally very heavily
interested in these problems because of
Robotics
right so you get stuff like ant Walker
and half cheetah and all that
and that's really more High
Fidelity physics in a 3D environment we
have to simulate stuff like contact
points
right how can I get it at what that
problem
inails right like the thing that that
problem entails is just a bunch of
a bunch of configurations of
continuous uh continuous action space so
how can I get at that same problem
without the performance issues and the
infra
overhead that is associated with all
those physics
Sims so what I've come up with so far
would be a good way to have an engine
that supports simil uh continuous
State
and continuous
actions while being very fast for like a
a pixel or like a point engine
of how do you actually make this into
like a high interesting High dimensional
control
problem right
this what are some games that would
require
right think I just dropped some
frames that's okay
though um
like some way to get that into the
control
space so usually like the control
actions are stuff
like motor uh Motors and like torqus
joint angles stuff like that right
it's kind of funny because
like the continuous control problem is
in a
sense how to
map a whole bunch of like
lowlevel
instructions into something like a
position in the real world or something
like that right like you know you have
like robot with six degrees of freedom
or whatever and really all you want is
you want to get like the Grabber to the
point that you want to get the Grabber
to
right I almost want to model it like hey
you know instead of just being able to
set X Y and Z however you want it um
it's like you have 10 knobs and then
whatever you set the knobs to all that
data goes through some like randomly
initialized neural network or whatever
and then it has to come out on the other
side to give you the
uh well the angles or the position that
you want
right it's almost what it
of Well Control is a good word for it's
the clunkiness of the controls right
it's like learning to use a mouse or
whatever you know where you want the
cursor to be but actually getting it
there is not trivial at least you know
if you're playing like a competitive
game or something right it takes a long
time to be able to use a mouse like an
extension of your hand
right I am kind of tempted by the random
mdp thing not going to lie but I think
that that's a little bit that's doing a
disservice to the the robotics
Community but I want something that
looks like a continuous control problem
in that sense like if can has that same
feeling to
it and the same difficulty associated
with it that's even possibly tunable
without having to simulate an expensive
robot that's what I want to
see
tricky I mean I could just like
what like okay the standard thing is
like six degree of Freedom robot armor
something like that right what is
something that approaches that level of
complexity
um what is something that approaches
that level of complex
I don't like the random mdp thing
actually conceptually now that I think
about it
because um it's unintuitive like there's
no there's no way of grasping how hard
the problem
is because the result is going to look
the same
regardless though to be fair I don't
necessarily need to start
with high dimensional continuous
control could just be continuous
control
though the question is what is the point
then so if I'm just discretizing like
what does this environment solve right
let's say that I make a
cool like pixel agent environment right
that has like a bunch of of interesting
like multi-agent tasks or whatever
single agent task has a bunch of
different things in it they're really
quick to simulate whatever in the
discret space okay that's a good test
bed if it's in the continuous space I
guess it is a good test of like whether
just running the same problem continuous
versus discreet makes a
difference we saw yesterday that there
was actually it was kind of harder to
get the continuous version working on
the exact same problem so that could be
useful but it doesn't really get at the
whole whole continuous control
problem now now on the flip side
right you could go all the way on the
continuous side and kind of treat it
like a game engine where you do the
entity neural network
thing you commit to doing quad trees or
whatever you approximate nearest
neighbor to get stuff that's in your
vision range
uh you
parameterize you know stuff like a wall
by its angle and things like that you do
the Collision checks so you write like
that really really basic physics engine
type thing
you get the rabbit hole though of like
physics infidelity if you do
that okay I'm going to go I'm going to
go take a few minutes to do a couple of
things I
think um well yeah I'm going to take a a
couple maybe I'm just going to take a
minute now to do a couple things I have
a few things to do throughout a day like
this uh I'll be right back and um then
we'll figure this
um very conflicted over how I want to
build this
thing I really don't want to go down the
whole Rabbit Hole of like trying to
build my own
High Fidelity physics engine right like
that's
not those
like is reinforcement learning on
continuous spaces fundamentally
harder than learning on discrete spaces
that's like a good way of thinking about
it and actually if I want to look at it
that
way then the thing that I've outlined
here is a really good starting point for
that if I just do the simulation in
continuous
space discretize
observations for the sake of making it
easy to or fast to render
and um giving something like comparable
to the discret case in the observation
space not the state or the action space
you have continuous
actions that's a pretty darn good start
because then right then I could build
out the suite of tasks which will be
very very easy suite of tasks basically
just different like initial conditions
and rewards on the simple particle
M single agent multi-agent whatever
I can run it discreet and I can run it
continuous and if there's a substantial
difference in learning performance for
what is essentially an identical task in
discreet and
continuous then that's an algorithmic
problem right that's a genuine
algorithmic
problem I don't think that that's really
been
studied and if they work exactly the
same after tuning or after whatever then
there's essentially
no difference that would mean that
there's no difference
between continuous and discreet learning
fundamentally and then the problem with
uh you know Robotics and all the like
the robotics action space is not
specifically that it is continuous right
it's that it is high dimensional
and well there's like not a good reward
signal or whatever to learn it which is
identical to the problem that we have in
discreet the Cas so it would essentially
map the robotics problem the difficulty
of that as being identical to the
difficulty of like playing a game with a
hard set of key
binds which is something I have a lot of
experience with in uh in the RL
case I think that's a good amount of
talking through this for now I think
that I'm fairly confident that this is a
good direction to go in and I want to
start building
it so
the way I'm going to go about
this and I'm going to hope I'm not going
to get stuck
here oh let me just check real quick if
uh I have any replies from Sam though I
think it's not his time
promo holy this has gotten a lot of 857
already okay aside from a few minor
breaks I'll be live all day building
this thing I've got
another well it's hard to do all day
when you start at like noon or whatever
but
hey N9 and a half miles had to get run
weights had to get
lifted and I got a meeting at 5:
otherwise it'd be on till
uh where are
we
continuous uh like
this and then I also want to copy
continuous
the environment I made into grid so I
have it as or grid
continuous
okay and this is fine
R now the hardest part about this is
getting started on it and figuring that
out and then it's it should be pretty
smooth let me remind myself how I made
this grid end
work right so it's just
uh simple move and check
that's fine it's got petting zoo
bindings it's got um puffer bindings as
well
okay so there's I've been meaning to
clean this type of a thing up there's
currently just a bunch of API garbage um
this is the if you as a user go to use
puffer lib this is not what you deal
with this is the advanced API that gets
even more performance than the other one
and it's kind of in flux so this is like
the what if we were able to just bypass
all the petting zo Shenanigans for
multi-agent and all the gym Shenanigans
and just go straight to um shared memory
for simulation that's why this exists so
you can ignore this for
now I'm mostly just going to hack around
this
grid is
fine agent
positions I don't need to maintain a
continuous grid I think that the agent
positions this will serve as the the
discretized
version
and we'll serve as the discretized
spawn positions cans that function is
fine it's just going to have to
change and then this render function is
the main
thing okay where's the use scon use C
okay we'll do scon after so we're going
to do UC as false
let's
go up to
here
and
right gen spawn position is moving
outward
from the
center I would like to keep this
function I would like
to uh I would would like
to change the scaling of it though first
of all let's add a binding so I can
start running this
interactively
do
yeah let's not add all these settings in
just yet these are going to make it too
slow to start
up continuous
mode
Rin and we're going to basically just
start changing the discrete stuff to
continuous
stuff as soon as I get this bound
correctly why is is it taking forever to
start
up should not
be wait
what wait wait I found this completely
accidentally did you realize that you
can I do not have plugins installed for
this Vim key binds apparently work to go
up and down on
why
not because it's named
grid upper
grid continuous
be positions it's going to be nump array
of positions and then we're going to
do equals
positions Z this has got to be divided
by self.
height is there a self.
height no I made it Square so we'll do
Map size for now so div divide by Map
size * 2 - 1 so 2 * positions divide my
map size minus
one and actually I can just do positions
equal
positions I thought I had to handle uh
nonsquare Maps
initially uh two times
positions turn
turn few
times
okay and then we'll see this should give
us uh they should be about in the middle
of the
map something just flipped over there
that was weird
and they seem to go from zero to
one which is a bit odd but we'll see
what happens with
that
um so
next we get to change the action
type the action type is going to
be acceleration
X and acceleration y y
right or do we just do velocity x
velocity
y I did for the other one I did
acceleration
um for now I'm just going to do
velocity yeah for now I'm just going to
do velocity
be gymnasium spaces. boox it's going to
go from Nega -1 to
one and you have an X and A Y component
which is VX and v y okay
we go to python step and it's
implemented in this weird way because
it's implemented to make it easier
toonize
do
row well we do like this actions this
going to be actions of agent idx we do
row or uh was it Bill X something's
blown up my Twitter
H long as I'm not being cancelled for my
cringe Jack's post I think we're
good
why equals
action actually we do it we don't do
topple indexing we do equals action of
zero you write it out like this um it
makes it easier to
pize uh do we need row and
column we do need the
position
YX should probably do YX to make it
easier for um for this right and then I
do y
equals it's not going to be row and
column
anymore and then we
do d
r or dest
Y and D X
okay and
now what we do is we discretize right so
this is continuous space and then we're
going to
do
oops
discretize check
collisions so we
do
uh
disk
y
equals it's got to
be
um so the center of the map is zero
right or wait why do we want the center
of the map to be zero isn't that
dumb are they ever going to observe
their position absolutely no they're not
why would they observe their absolute
position chords right that's dumb so we
don't need to use um we can make it easy
e by making the map go from 0 to one
instead of negative 1 to one that's just
going to save us uh annoyances
right so when I did gen spawn positions
before I should have
done wait two
times wait positions divide by Map
size it should have just been positions
over Maps size
right
okay and then it's just going to be int
of self. map siiz time
D and now this allows us to get uh the
discrete
coordinates and then we
do dis
y dis X
of we need to discretize both don't
we yeah we need to discretize both we
need to discretize so it's got to be
dis
dust y right
dis we'll do like this and then we'll do
disk y like this
cool
uh I actually I think I'd prefer to do
the other way i' do like the blocks like
this this is cleaner to
me
ties now what we do is
so if the destination is this then we
set the current one to empty this is
correct
suggestion uh we set the new
position and then the agent positions
get updated
to the agent positions get updated to
the nondiscrete version right
continuous position update
collision and that's actually pretty
close to all we need isn't
it it's pretty close we got to update
the reset function obviously
um so spawn position cans here
is this is
YX
right and
um and we need to discretize again right
so disk y disk
X and let's see if this auto complete
was good for us if the grid of discreete
is zero then we
make agent
otherwise yeah continuous update so this
is actually
perfect and then we keep this statement
here which we'll just keep trying to
spawn agents until it finds
them very
of course this is not the high per
continuous control engine this is python
it's not going to be in Python when
we're done with
it but it's going to look almost
identical to this because cython is
Magic freaking love
good all right so let's see what I've
forgotten
some
values High greater than
low nump
any well I didn't give it a continuous
policy now did
uh wait is
it action space
why this is I don't know why it did
that uh
float no mp. float 32 it should
zero right so we have to update the
observation crop function maybe a little
bit so this is not RN C this is Y and X
right and if we want
R and C we got to discretize again and
we'll find some good way of like not
repeating all that discretization logic
somehow
could not
broadcast okay
control okay so why are Y and X
zero uh they shouldn't
be well for some reason the agent
positions didn't get set right
oh float 32
right it was doing int
Division I
assume still no
what are these positions it's giving
positions at least it looks like those
are
right so now for
okay so the agent positions are still
not getting set
here self
dot
oh the positions need to be uh float
32 the grid can stay
uent observations can stay
uent but yeah this needs to be
set for anybody watching quick reminder
if you have not started puffer lib it's
GitHub puffer AI puffer lib helps me out
a whole
ton and helps me be able to spend my
time doing this rather than dumb
promo okay action spaces do not match I
think that is what we want now because I
don't know what model this
is I don't know what model this is here
more of these errors need to get caught
earlier but at least it is a proper API
usage
error we's see what actions we have
coming back from the
rather really need to get the startup
time to be faster than this there are a
lot of like Imports that are just slow I
think torch Dev might be one of them um
I really would like to like subc start
up for
this okay so I know the issue you have
to put a clip on the
uh so I wrote this rapper
yesterday we're actually going to just
copy this whole little
yeah this is a nice little wrapper to
have I might just put it native in the
environment we'll
see but we're going to do it like this
for
now cuz the uh the actual gym wrapper
does not work the clip their clip action
wrapper does not
it is a puffer isn't
it puffer Li Puffer
oh yeah the wrapper I made does not work
for a puffer M right it only works for a
petting zoo
API so let's get rid of we're just going
to do it native then that's
fine that's pretty easy to handle what
we do is we just do
well we're going to get the logic from
um from here so we're going to do. i f
info F info
equals then we
do low
equals uh F info. Min high is f info.
Max
yeah yes
right and we should just clip the uh
we'll clip the rewards here
right so we'll just
do actions is going to be clip
to clip actions minus one one
solid okay what is uh what has going
wrong here I think the spawn positions
were off
right the spawn positions didn't make
sense to me
before yes
let's do
spawn so right here
okay so this is not how I wanted these
to be distributed
um Map size is
512 mid is
right abs of P minus
and it should be sorted based on
distance from the midpoint
it if I look at
this yeah this is
fine yeah the spawn positions are fine
let me see what the error was it was an
out of bounds right but where was it was
it on spawn or where was
wait okay this is actually kind of
confusing I have to think about
this I know the issue but I'm going to
have to think about this for a second um
I'm going to take a Qui quick break I
will be back in a few minutes and I'm
going to in the meantime I'm going to
think through
this so let me be right
should be all
set for the next uh I don't know hour
hour and a
half until I got to do one other
thing
um so what I was thinking about in the
meantime here right was whether I want
to
do the game
map on a scale of
um discretized tile
being uh one so like one per tile I want
to do the whole map as one there are
pros and cons here so the simpler option
I think is to
do the continuous space is equal to the
number of pixels in the discrete space
and then you can just the continuous
basically allows you to be between
pixels and stuff um
it's simpler now the thing is if I do it
fully continuous like if I do it uh zero
to one or whatever then it is
easier and more consistent let's say I
want to render it coarse or fine grain I
can essentially do
that I can simulate at one Fidelity and
render it another
Fidelity and not only render it that
fidelity but I can compute observations
at different fidelities as well so
that's probably what I want to do
slightly more complicated but not
really let me just check the stream to
make sure that I
um I didn't mess anything up because I
saw the view count just dropped that's
probably just from the break I had to
take
good you can't just drop because you
take a break whatever
right yeah that's fine and no Echoes I
didn't mess anything up no we're
good hopefully people will tell me if I
mess something
up okay so how are we going to do this
um
I think that basically
the the velocity have to be way smaller
right that's how it
worked velocities just have to be way
smaller
be well wait you want the action space
to be like negative 1 to one but then
you can actually you can internally
scale that however you want
right well not really because you also
want the observation The observed
velocities to be similar
[Music]
H that's
interesting what
if what if I have a default
different
so the default scale
is equal to the map size then after I'm
done with this I Implement a different
thing that is a render scale that's a
separate thing okay that that will solve
the problem that will get us the best of
both so for now we get to do the simple
thing and we get to do a slightly more
complicated thing afterwards that's
fine
um so in that
case you don't need to multiply by the
map
size right you don't need to multiply by
the Map size
whatsoever and they actually the spawn
positions don't need to be divided
either so funny enough we we actually
get very close to the original
code yeah we get very close to the
original code like
this
it's just in of Y for now in of X I'll
leave the
uh I'll leave like the assignments like
this okay so that was a very long-winded
way of figuring out that you just need
to do some casts
but this will actually produce something
cool I
broadcast
uh
one and it's already
training already trains very
yeah we can render
this
so looks
reasonable same thing as before but now
we have
continuous
actions so you you can see that the
agents don't always move on a
cell and uh the only way that that's
possible if is that they have not moved
an entire
pixel so where do we go from here
um there's several things that we need
to do next
I'm trying to think if I want to train
something
quickly or if I want to do slightly
different uh resolution
scale so the idea here was that you
should be able to render the way that
I've set this up now you should be able
to render at a different
resolution uh from the the original
one so you
back currently figuring out how to build
uh the grid environment into a many
agent continuous control Suite that will
also support discreet mode so this is
the goal of this project here this is
going to be a really nice test suite for
like a variety of not all that trivial
actually um discret tasks and then the
exact same task continuous so if there's
any difference in performance it's going
to be attributed solely to the algorithm
not to the environment and that should
be a very nice thing for research as
well as a very nice test suite for
puffer we'll answer some
questions uh so this is being built now
as a modification of the existing
discrete end
and when it's done I will beoning this
thing and frankly I'm really sick of
maintaining Python and scon versions for
stuff so I'm probably just going to get
rid of the Python uh side of it and just
maintain one scyon version once I get
there because this is just too much
annoying code to maintain because I have
to duplicate this
code um
so next thing here is like I want there
to be a map size that
defines the amount of space that the
agents have to work with right and then
I want there to be a render
size which is going to define
the uh the actual scale on which you see
things so
let's do render
40 20 48 or
whatever we'll have to change some
args
and oh wait I'm I'm editing the wrong
thing it's up
here would
you consider streaming building a small
scale RL project right from scratch that
is in fact what I did with the snake
environment what I did yesterday with
the uh continuous control environment
that did not exist before yesterday and
this is based off of the grid
environment that I've already made but
this is pretty much going like from
scratch like the The Continuous control
en is uh or the grid end is very simple
to begin with so this is yes doing that
3x and we'll be continuing to do that
with more environments after this
but usually those like environments
unless they're really trivial they're
more than one day projects it's kind of
like the snake end was like a one week
mode the snake M uh it's not on the
channel it is on X I've been considering
trying to export those videos but if you
go back through my feed on X you can
have all of the snake uh streams there's
like 30 hours of them probably it was a
week's worth of work
right okay so the grid
here uh the grid here should
be render size
right this could potentially mess up the
discreet um
potentially this messes up the way that
I handle discreet Ms
though let me think about
yes that error is that you need to you
need to set up your uh well first of all
you don't have to run it with wandb if
you're not using the Baseline stuff um
you can run it without wandb but if you
want to use like if you want to download
the Baseline policy and stuff you need a
WB account they're free and you need to
set that up with your API key so that it
will pull the policy
this needs to be render size the grid is
going to be maintained render size
right it's actually kind of hard to to
figure out isn't
it I think I'm making I'm missing some
stuff up
here I did make it sure I'm logged into
WB but
still yeah if you post it in the puffer
channel that would be uh the puffer
Discord is for that um my guess is that
like there's some Flags or whatever in
the the demo file for like your WBY
account that's like set to puffer lib or
set to whatever you probably need to
just make like you know your username SL
your project and the project probably
has to exist something like
that so you probably just have to make
one in the
wbui
um Map size render
size I think these things are named
wrong and I and that's what's um
confusing me
so it's really space size right
it's like space size and render size or
because
yeah it's space size and render
size let's try that
um I'm not going to rename them right
now just yet but
it's that's that was the thing that
wasn't
clicking then spawn
positions Map size this is correct it's
the space
be render
size render size I
now the difference is going to be that
when I need to edit this in the spawn
function and in the step function
right spawn
positions okay yeah I need to set this
in the the uh the reset where those
spawn positions get
used
so I think you need like scale factor or
something
right scale factor
yeah okay this is what's missing so you
want self. scale is going to be render
size over Map size like
this
float let's just make sure we do float
Division and now when we
reset Python reset
we do int of
um scale times
y okay because this is where it gets
rendered to in the
yes and this needs to
be scale time
scale
times scale
now almost
correct almost correct
grid um and then you need to
do right when you you do the grid
here where's reset
grid
wall left is going to be self. Vision
range times uh or self.
scale time self. Vision range so the
borders need to be larger right
no no they don't need to be larger they
actually get thinner that's
interesting um okay so what was it with
the renderer then was only rendering a
quarter of the
screen where's the renderer in
here grid
ocean import
height this looks fine doesn't it width
height maybe I'm making the render thing
the wrong
size be making the renderer the wrong
size render size render
size that actually does look correct to
me
this
really spawn position can
here hyper continuous control engine um
so the goal is that the I have a way to
simulate environments with agents that
move in continuous space so they're like
they take actions as if they're moving a
joystick instead of just pressing like
up down left white a right is a way to
think about that like their actions are
negative one to one not just like
negative one or one so like how much to
the left how much to the right instead
of just go left or go right uh and I'm
trying to make that really high
perf hi
Kawa welcome
here oh that's
bizarre yeah actions between left and
right rather than just left or right so
you essentially you get a magnitude
right it's like when you press on the
gas pedal it's not you either floor it
or you are stationary right you can do
anything in
between it's like
that particularly important for robotics
applications though used in a variety of
different
circumstances a little confused as to
what happened
here
spawn
position
oh I don't know how this function got
deleted um I that's bizarre
okay I miss assuming this isn't the
first live stream for this
project um the grid this is I had a
discreet grid thing that I made
before it's really trivial it's like 50
lines of code it's basically the same
thing as what I built yesterday but
discreet and with a bunch of agents in
it so the thing I'm doing right now is
I'm almost from scratch building a
continuous control engine uh that I just
started this you know a couple hours ago
and uh I was I've been thinking
basically about how to how I want to
represent that what I want this project
to do and how it's going to be useful
for
RL oh I don't know about for the
specific grid I don't know um but the
thing is like everything that I do in
the grid project is just a simpler
version of what I do in the snake
project it's the identical Tech
identical everything the code's almost
identical um so the snake end will like
the way I built the and we'll show you
all of
that is it more stressful working on
this kind of stuff on stream no not
remotely so in fact streaming stuff
actually helps me stay focused on stuff
um that's part of the reason I'm doing
it it's also fun to share this um my
like the time that I'm spending right
now like looking at chat and reading
when I'm working I would normally spend
just like getting distracted by my own
thoughts spacing out
anyways so this is um you know this is a
more fun and productive way to use the
in between
time oh the highper the high perf
continuous control is new today this is
me taking a dead simple uh discrete
engine that I wrote for the grid
environment which is basically identical
to the snake engine pretty much like one
for one identical and adding continuous
control this is like from two hours ago
you really haven't missed anything it
was both basically me talking through a
bunch of design stuff and then realizing
that I pretty much just had to add some
casts uh put everything into continuous
variables and then add cast to ins when
I go to render it it's very
simple ah okay I see the issue the grid
is
yes I see I see the issue here um the
grid is not being correctly
represented right
here this is sing render size but I need
to
here Map size render
size
or size
here if I try to code along any chance
I'll be able to follow more
through it it all since I don't have any
RL knowledge
well you can type the code but you might
not know why I'm making the decisions
that I'm making
um I had a little segment where I kind
of went through like I actually kind of
whiteboard
it where did I
put I made this thing so I kind of went
through before on stream oops just
closed all my windows thank you for that
um I went through on stream before like
this and I kind of outlined what I
wanted to do with the project U
before yeah
code is very simple um this the snake
the snake uh code is actually better
than this like the grid was the grid
project was before I did the snake
project so it's just like a worse
version of that so what I'm the plan is
to figure out this continuous
environment get it working get stuff
training on it make sure everything is
reasonable clean up this gross code base
uh scon IE
it te perf test it make sure everything
is good and then that'll be like a good
resource and it'll probably only be like
300 Total Lines of code it's it's going
to be very
short what is going on
here Map size is 512 render size
tomorrow NP zeros why is it rendering
this
way I should not be rendering this way I
wouldn't
height
grid so grid is grid is
correctly there's an easy way to find
that out isn't there
well the wall is the wrong color to help
me determine that but I can see that
there
is yeah I can't see the red pixels
through this black so it's actually not
rendering it at
right and then where do you
have wait empty agent wall right empty
agent
wall it's filled with empty and then you
get the wall oh oh I know what's wrong
wrong yeah yeah this is fine
size right here not Map
size now it'll
work and I have to save this as a I have
to save this
perfect so this is exactly what I wanted
um this is the exact same environment as
before but now uh since it is rendered
larger it's at a a different scale so
these things can still move exactly as
fast as they could move
before they can move the same distance
across this
thing um but their effective Vision has
been cut in half but the Fidelity of
their Vision has
doubled if that makes
sense I'm actually wondering here I
don't think that you should be able to
see groups of pixels next to each
other no actually you probably still
can I should make a much um smaller demo
of this just so we can see
it and I can see whether it's working
truly correctly or
not so let's
do Map size of 128 with a render size of
1,024 do
128 probably way too many right let's do
64 agents
works you can see that the individual
pixels are moving quite fast right they
dance around very
quickly now actually I'm starting
starting to wonder though if that is
this the effect that I
want
um like does this matter the way that
it's done
here well
so essentially the agents don't have a
size to them right now it's
just like they occupy a space and if
that space is too close to another agent
based on the render size then they can't
occupy the same
space but this is fine for now this this
is fine for now because I have um
obviously like these agents are way too
small um to be reasonable to see but we
have other render modes that will take
care of
that so yeah this is like this is good
continuous
here we don't actually have to do too
much
more this is pretty much the basics of a
continuous control engine
we can decide whether we want to do
acceleration
right we can uh make it discreete and
continuous in one
en we can clean up the apis a
bit use with puffer
en probably going to just get rid of the
petting
zoo thing because that's just going to
be its own
wrapper and we don't need to worry about
that for now
this we'll uh bring this wrapper back
another
time python reset is fine we will
support that to scon in a little bit
here don't need test petting zo
do I want toonize from
here I don't think I want toonize quite
yet so actually this is very conven
venient because
um this is going to allow us to do the
the puffer demo easier the other render
mode
easier yep okay I think that we can just
like scon the logic of this real quick
to get it into there we can get rid of
the
python
um I don't think we're going to run into
any trouble doing that I think it should
be pretty
basic and that'll get this file shorter
then we can we can uh go from there yeah
so grab all this
logic copy
pyx now we have this syon code here for
the original discret
environment so we're going to grab the
reset logic
here and I'll put the reset
logic underneath
here and we're going to make the uh the
corresponding
observations oh I know why I did that
yeah we're going to just do this on um
on a knit now so we can get rid of
this uh we can
keep this so this is going to be self.
render
size other than that this is the
same and the agent spawning logic is
almost
identical so let's get rid of this this
get rid of this and then we're going to
swap this one up to
these in
R do we have RNC now
no we have
YX dis X and dis y so
that and that is now
sconed so that should be CS speed unless
I messed anything up and forgot a
variable and now we will do the same
thing with
okay
so do we use RNC anymore no we do
not we do use
YX velocity x velocity y
discreet yeah all these different
variables
and
block okay now we have all of our
variables
defined I don't see anything in here
would break scyon
ised uh that would break
let's see if this builds uh actually we
need
to we need to add the file don't we
ixd what is
wrong with
okay that's
weird um Let me give it a unique
name let's see if we get the same build
there
pxd I do wish syon had better
errors though usually I get better than
this
um let's just like
real
quick see if that changes
anything same
error okay I'm going to just I know this
is below the camera give me one
second just want to get more of the
error
bizarre maybe can you not have the same
scon uh hold on
commas sometimes if you do like weird
syntax errors it messes
checked I wish it would give me a line
number what the
what if I just don't type any of
these that
am I like just missing am I just
forgetting something
completely maybe the terminal is just
eating the error
there oh yeah it was just eating the
error message that's fine
so so what we're going to do is we don't
need this
action we need this is actions agent
idx Z like this
really basic error just was truncating
the error
message too many
indices right because actions is now a
2d array
right we're going to have to deal with
that when we do
um well we'll have to deal with that
when we go from discreet to continuous I
mean it continuous to
though so hopefully we'll be able to run
the
test which I should already have set up
shape wait
shape two like this right
I think this is right it just needed the
right action shape I have this thing
that um just runs the environment with
random data as a performance
test in order to see how much better the
scon version is than the python
one 32k is way too
slow should be much much faster than
this
okay so let us see what
is what is
wrong well here you go right
here uh ocean Dot
ocean do grid continuous
do
continuous okay let's get this out of
this Loop
continues okay that input looked like it
worked
right let's put it
right so the observations are still
chars but some of the other types have
changed Let's
see we defined what's a float now agent
positions is a float spawn positions is
a float
float and we'll see whether it likes um
I might have to do float 32 or
whatever let's yeah let's do float 30
can you do float 32 like
this I think this is just the default
float
32 oops I have to recompile
can't do unsigned float 32 whoops
doesn't need to be
int
float this is a float this is a float
this is a float
float and this is an
INT still
spawn position
cans spawn
idx is in
70 right
so
F going to
do spawn
assign this is now
on up
so float y float
X int R let's see int
agentx
nice that appears to compile
and I'm expecting that possibly the uh
cast sytax we're using is
slow but we're going to
see well maybe this runs maybe it
doesn't right I there's one other change
that we made that I forgot to
is actually this is
fine
um right I did this weird in the
original this is a thing I wanted to
fix so what I wanted to fix
here is this needs to go
into reset
none self. grid buff.
observations. Map size
and I hopefully I saved all these
variables already to the
class
yes well actually I don't need to I
don't need to rebuild but
almost
there this will be the first step into
getting the code into scon so
fast and
then we will be able to go from
there reset
takes
okay 132
doesn't have any object mener si uh
render
size it's
fine we need to pass it render size as
well so this signature needs to be
updated to be
size that oh I think I need to save the
variable here right yeah
recompile I'm going to start using the
faster compile
syntax this is stupid waiting for um it
to go through a toml
better I don't know why it's recompiling
all the MS but
see just added render
size but I forgot to statically Define
it of course
Bol this is one of the nice things about
scyon
overc when I get a seg
vault and just put all these options
on
rebuild and now I can get the non segol
error
here which
error stepping with numpy
actions out of
bounds I didn't apply the clip did
clip
ah casting to nump
32 don't want to do that could be
float that changes
anything well this is not supposed to be
an INT this is supposed to be a float
now now we will recompile
that now
worked We Run The Grid continuous
code expected float got
double okay we need to uh
C we do clip uh. S Type float
32 with some casts
that looks
good okay
39K and
31k obviously we're going to have it
running way way faster than this
so let's go uh open up
the the
setup let's turn annotate back on
here and now this should tell us where
we are calling back to
Python and we shouldn't even have to run
it for that we should just be able to
grab files from
[Music]
here
copy grid
continuous the HTML
file C grid continuous
this is a nice thing with scyon it will
tell
you wherever you are calling back from
scyon to
python so this is
good reset is
good interesting everything looks like
it should be
good this is a memory view so this calls
back obviously
and then this doesn't
matter
H so this says it should be fast but
it's
slow let's check what settings we
so this is slow for some reason and I
don't know
h i mean there are a few slow things in
here but nothing that I see that should
be ridiculously slow
rewards yeah they should be running like
millions of steps per second so
something is
screwy I could run
let's go run this in my profiler this is
why I have multiple different
tools for
investigating uh
performance so I can do if I just add
this to my
profiler right here
import oh it's just
import
ocean
profile okay and if I just run test test
performance
uh it's a little unfortunate because
this is now in the it's in the puffer
API which doesn't have this exact same
thing
this oh this actually probably
works if I just do um
dot not
quite okay well that's a little bit
annoying
um what about C
profile can I just run C profile on this
okay that does actually
work
so
ah compute rewards and like reduce so
basically there's just a bunch of numpy
overhead oh I know
why yeah it's this really stupid reward
function that I had
um this was a quadratic reward
way now we can just run this properly we
should hopefully see a big difference in
performance I'm not going to full
optimize this until we're you know in a
good spot but um hopefully this gives us
something way
better yeah there there you go
immediately
million okay so this is what I wanted to
demonstrate with um syon this is like a
very good consistent number
so you write a really simple environment
in
Python you do it in like a reasonable is
way right you get 100 Kish steps per
second you start adding stuff to it you
start writing more Loops in Python this
thing drops down to thousands of steps
per second hundreds of steps per second
I've seen it go even lower than that in
some
M's you write it in
scyon this thing starts out at millions
of steps per second and stays at
millions of steps per
second so right now it's like okay 130k
is fast to begin with but there is a big
difference up to this because the
difference between 130k and 2 mil is
that I don't even need to like worry too
much about vectorization when it's this
fast the other main feature of puffer
admittedly but uh I don't need to worry
too too much about it when it's this
fast I do need to worry when it's this
fast so that's
nice um I don't want to completely get
rid of this just yet in case I'm I need
it so I'm going
here now we got 200 line the
code we're going to get rid of this use
C mode we're just going to
have the CN be the only mode
okay we're going to get rid of this
observation space we're going to put it
in
quite action space goes there we get rid
of this
it's even simpler don't need this use C
anymore put this up top where it
either actually if they're going to be
down there we'll just move all this down
to there anyways
lines uh compute observations as well
also not needed we'll put this in the
python
file 168 lines and then these are extra
random reward functions leave those
alone for
good we can probably train something on
this now
um I'm going to go take one second to
make myself a
shake I will be right back and then I
will be live for another
hour and I don't
know hour half hour and hour 30
something like
that I'll be right back take uh like
three
let's
um let's finish this thing here
so few things we're going to have to
do few things we're going to have to
do I'd like to train a couple of Agents
on
this just for the sake of it
fine let's go grab the grid settings
oops
yeah let's grab these
settings exactly
right and let's put these on grid
continuous now this 125 million steps is
kind of ridiculous let's see how fast
this trains just to start with
Ms num workers yeah all that's
fine oh um of course this is not the the
optimal
setting just we also seem to have some
bugs grid
continuous clean this
up OB
size where did I do OB size
I just can go up
here good continuous and we're going to
use the same settings as we used up here
which is a map size 28 or was it 512 use
a render size of
512 we're going to use num
agents
1024 ryzen 512 and we're going to just
IND Dent this thing oops somewhat
appropriately um
this okay so this Transit 100K is
97k to start with it's to start with
um which is not quite fast enough for
our
purposes but we're going to be able to
uh to improve upon this quite quite
substantially this will absolutely train
it a million steps per second on the
bigger box once I have um tweaked a few
small things I can tell you that
much let's figure out why this thing is
not reporting first of
all it's not reporting very
often I I just returning yeah on episode
return that's kind of
fine I'm actually kind of surprised if
those were the settings I used for the
uh the The Continuous grid though I
think that 125 mil run might have been a
relatively long uh run I'd have to
check I think I do see the reward
improving
here would have to see in the meanwhile
we know that it does actually
train
um we should probably add the dis the
discreet setting back to the
environment and then we'll basically
merge this is just one grid
environment rizen fish range
dis equals
false this is just going to be puffer
grid
really the only thing that has to change
is the action space
a a a six-way
discreete
I kind of want to make this a
discreete I kind of want to make this a multi- discreete three and three
discreet
cre
this so what this is going to do for us
um
is this is going to
be like y velocity 1 0 1 or uh it's
going to be you know X velocity1 01 so
we're going to have six options here or
nine nine total possible moves if you
want to think of it that
way and um we are going to have
to work with
because we would like to do type
conditional stuff
here but I think I know how to do it I
think I know how to do it
do a u
right we're going to have to add this
discretized
variable uh where is it Vision
arrange
discretize discretize here
so right here we're going to
add uh
bent R
let's cut this here and
here and
then what we're going to do is
here and then what we're going to do is we're going to do a little something
we're going to do a little something
that's a little bit
cheeky we're going to do
actions we're not going to initialize
this
here we're going to do
actions continuous
and we're going to do unsigned
int array actions
discret
XY so we're just going to make two
different code paths basically here
now action equals AG actions where is
it oh we don't need this line
so if discretized we're going to do one
thing
actually we do need
um the in agent or the in
huh well we can just
do equals
float so this gives you 0 one or
two minus
one minus
one actually minus one
this and then I'm going to just put vert
0 one
this so that should give us a discrete
and
continuous option here
so now we should be able to train as
soon as I fix these
bugs we will be able to train the same
exact environment with discrete or
continuous
actions and that will be fairly
powerful this has to be actions
continuous
and this will be a very very good test
suite for
puffer first of all let's see if we can
run
it we have to change a couple of
variables that we uh re
discretizes false by
default if discretize you make it
discrete otherwise you make it
continuous yes and did I do it backwards
here yes yes I
did very nice so this now runs the
continuous mode
let's now check the
one G
ties
room 189.1 K
parameters 89.6 you can see the network
is slightly different and we are now
able to train it so just like that we
have an environment that can be run in
discrete mode or in continuous mode that
supports however many agents we want is
multi-resolution
in the sense that you can specify
the uh sort of the movement strength
around the map without screwing up your
action scales
few more things I want to think about
with the environment on specifically
that scaling and such before we start
thinking about tasks and other cleanup
um but this is this is the base of the
thing that needed to be built like this
is the base of the thing that needed to
be
built it's a very very simple engine for
determining
whether well your continuous
optimization algorithms work as well as
your discreet
ones which is not the same as having
like a benchmark for continuous control
it's not the same as like hey this is
how you train High dimensional robots
but it is the same as saying like
hey um are your algorithms bad because
they're continuous which is an important
question as well in this space and one
that I think has a lot less eyes on it
me double check a couple things make
sure the live streams are actually
I want to think about the way I'm doing
the scaling to think if it makes
sense
so the way I have this map size versus
render
you can define a
space like 100
wide but then you can render it at like
a thousand
wide so what that effectively does is
puts the agents farther apart from each
other does that make
sense is that a thing that makes sense
to do
well hold
on what does Map size actually get used
for
then it's really just a velocity scale
sense what I should do is I should just
have a map
size and I should have an agent
speed
right Map size agent speed and then the
only thing I should have with the
rendering is a an
upscale I should have an upscale option
because it's hard to see the pixel
agents that's pretty much
it yeah because otherwise the render
scale is going to screw with
learning so let's edit that and then I
think that that is like the last thing
that was bothering me and then from
there we can probably make some task
settings of this this environment that
are just going to be like initial
conditions Plus reward functions or
whatever and
um yeah we can think of like a variety
of different little training settings
for
this I
have one more hour before I've got to
go so I think we can get this little
refactor done and I think we can get
some of the tests uh settings done as
well Map size Vision
range
speed
equals
size we do not need self doop scale
we do need self we do need agent
I also probably want to make this work
with non-s square maps
right we'll do that as well we'll do
width and height instead of map size
after I do
height render already accepts width and
height
mesh grid
of it's y comma X isn't
it
function okay
and the other thing was the agent speed
Factor we needed to
do somewhere didn't we have
scale no it's in the
scon so the new signature is width
height render
vision very
good let's grab the signature
secd so this takes grid agent positions
spawn cans observations Map
size no longer Map size this is now with
height render size numb
agents Horizon Vision range
float agent speed being
discreet so num agents Vision
range
float and width
height now we get to make these few
small changes for Map size uh we do not
need this scale thing anymore we do need
to
set withd height
renders num agents we we don't need to
scale Horizon
Vision agent
size self. width times self.
height the
DX do we not have Map size anywhere else
in
here I guess guess
not there no bounce check oh no there's
no bounce check because I put walls
around the edges of the map because that
would be a faster bounce check
right
good we're going to probably want to
slightly change the observation space as
well and whatnot but let's get this
working first and we also need to do
well let's do the compile first
size render size is not a thing anymore
right did we replace
this or did I mess that
up yeah no I messed that up so
there is no render
this get rid of
this put Horizon on that
line just have it cleanly
this
is ah you do need to make a few uh small
changes here so this
is
write C def into top
no it's
bottom bottom to
be itself do
width do
height so this is going to
be uh
yes colon
left left it's
wall we'll do like this and then we'll
do this
is
top and this is
oh you don't need uh top you
need the heck this is
right no this
bottom
yeah tricky
no attribute
scale right so this is this is the
velocity agent
speed agent
speed time y
okay and
um you know I'm a little bit concerned
with the The
Walls Way the walls are
done we'll go back to that later but if
you set the velocity too high it can
zoom past the walls
no attribute
scale I thought I got rid of all the
scales TR this
again oh I didn't compile that's why
okay good this now
trains we will try uh the other version
of
it we'll do the continuous version
here make sure they both
work very
good that's way
cleaner now we have grid continuous
Which is less than 200 lines including
the test really 150
lines and then C grid continuous which
is the engine which is another
150 pretty much spot on I said it was
going to be 300 lines this is with very
sparse like
CFS you know all spread out not really
compactified at
all um
150 and we can probably save a little
bit on that as
tasks I think what we do is we just make
some reward functions
right we just make some like reward
functions
W
introverts will be this
one so this is
the one minus the number of Agents you
can see
I don't really like that centralized
function because it's really slow to
compute it is kind of cool
though so we'll add it for
now and then this other one didn't
really do anything if I
recall what are some cool things that we
can we can make the agents do right
like some reasonable
tasks I think we're going to have to
soup up the environment a little bit
more for
that we're going to have to add like
some notion of targets or something like
that well let's add the bindings at
least first
do equals
TRS is there a social aspect for agents
and NPCs like creating groups and
communities not in this
environment um there might be a
Cooperative aspect though if we can
think of some fun Cooperative tasks the
goal of this project here this is to be
a very simple very
fast um multi-agent environment where
you can specify a variety of different
tasks some of which will be cooperative
some of which will be adversarial some
of which won't really have any focus on
the multi-agent component it'll just
like there'll be a bunch of Agents but
they're really just doing something
simple uh and then the goal will be that
we can train all of these individual
environments within like a couple
minutes each um at a million steps per
second and with discrete actions and
then we can can do the same thing with
continuous actions and we'll be able to
see if there's any disparity between
continuous and discrete optimization and
it'll be like this really nice sanity
check on algorithm implementations
discret versus
continuous that is the initial idea it's
also a nice way for me to bind um
continuous control to puffer I made a
very basic end for this yesterday this
one is a little bit
nice
you and then what we do is we do self.
buff of rewards equal to reward
function and this is the only place we
needed to do that
so we should be able to train this
technically it is very slow at the
moment I'm a little bit suspicious of
the uh the parameters that I had
configured they don't look like they
would
be very good to me let me
see ,24 agents actually is not bad
1284 agent should not be very bad disc
critize on
true I know that used to
so all look like reasonable
parameters it is just possible that the
uh this system is just
slow and see what the train breakdown
well I think we can do a little bit
better I didn't add vectorization to
this mvet did
I no I should probably do that but in
the meantime we'll just use puffers
built-in we'll just say that this is
going to be um eight environments two
workers M batch size is going to be four
environments
One update
Epoch mini batch size
slow okay so this is now at a quarter of
a million steps per second which is
still not quite fast
enough still not quite fast enough
what did I do for snake
five Vision range so I used a very small
Vision range right for
snake let's try out the exact snake
Network on
this we will
um we'll edit the vision range to be
only
five very small Vision range
on do we have use RNN on this yes this
technically says use RNN
I'll put it here just to be
sure oh this is going to be slightly
weird isn't
yeah we're going to have to adapt this
network a little bit I'm going to have
to figure out how to do a multiple and
multiple networks in like one repo like
this
um for now though I'm just going to copy
this whole
thing we're going to
[Music]
do multi discrete
um yeah I have to hardcode this for now
cu the advanced
API that's
fine there's only one channel
here right no there more than one
channels how many channels is it
empty agent
wall there's three
channels should be three
channels
three
right CNN channels
five code observations whoops wrong one
you want to edit the one at the
bottom
code action
dises
Vape um well something weird happened
because it's supposed to be able to
be multi-
discreete
right I definitely have support for
multi discreete here
shape oh but the action that's coming
out of the network is
the wrong shape
because right because I need to
do
oops so action is going to be like
this do
split now I got to look up what the
split command is p split
tensor size dim so it's going to be
split it
into three no wait 10. spit three and
then dim is equal to
one and then it gives you a list
right let's just double check
okay so this is now training at a
quarter mil
again a quarter mil is still very slow
though um that could be based on the
hardware but we should absolutely be
getting one million steps per second
second oh well to be fair I'm not
getting my full GPU anyways right now
right I'm streaming it's using half my
GPU to rent to uh encode so yeah half of
a lower tier GPU one gen behind getting
250 is maybe okay
it's the exact same network as the snake
Network which I know gets 1 mil
plus so we should be getting 1 mil Plus
on this as well once we run it on
that I think I can also see the
uh well let's just run a wand B let's
just track
it let's just run a track run
it reminder if uh you find any of this
stuff useful you wouldn't mind giving
the puffer a
Star Puffer loves Stars helps me out a
whole
okay so this environment is returning
episode
return
um reporting very
infrequently doesn't seem to be doing
particularly well though
clip Frack is not
terrible enty is not terrible yeah these
all look somewhat reasonable probably
just hyper parameters could be a couple
minor
bugs not entirely
sure we'll get to fix that
though at the very least we have this
running runs discret runs continuous I
want to have to tweak the networks a
little little bit to be continuous or
discreet that will take a small amount
of work I'm also going to have to figure
out how to do the
um how to make it so that I can put
multiple different torch policies with
uh the ocean Ms because we need a
different one for snake versus this
versus the uh the
defaults so that'll be a little bit
annoying to do I'll probably just do
that off stream tomorrow because that's
not going to be particularly interesting
and then we will uh we will be able to
do a couple more of these types of tasks
I want to go look at the original like
multi-agent particle M tasks to see if I
can get any ideas for stuff I want to
add to this the next time I work on
this because it's 408 I got a thing at
five I have a little bit of time but not
really enough to do anything super
Heavy multi-agent R
so I mean this thing exists and is very
very old
right I see so this they had like this
tag type environment I guess they had
the concept
of uh
adversary we could do that pretty easily
spread
static so they have
communication I don't think anybody ever
did anything with
that
so I don't really think we need to like
have objects they can push around
necessarily to demonstrate the um well
to demonstrate
this we could do some sort of tag type
thing pretty easily
but generally we're going to need like a
small collection of Cooperative tasks
competitive
tasks various different sandies these
are actually kind of hard to design
because
like it's really easy to just make a
bunch of random tasks it's a lot harder
to make a small set of actually useful
ones reference I'm going off of for this
is puffer
ocean and we have like these little toym
like this um and and they're meant to
diagnose specific problems with
algorithms and the
like so this is going to be a
substantially larger scale version of
that should still train very quickly
won't be very sample efficient now I'm
thinking like tasks that might take 100
million few hundred million steps to
complete but that's not very long when
you're training at a million steps per
second
task this this is actually a kind of
complicated and I don't mean it's like
too complicated to learn it's kind of
complicated for people to
interpret
um because it's not immediately obvious
what the agent should
do like the agents need to like go
towards landmarks but try to like
deceive the agent the opponent as to
where the landmark is that's kind of
obnoxious what's this crypto one
Alice and
heck okay so this is kind of a
hack
um like this doesn't have to be an
environment like this doesn't need to be
implemented like this at all like they
just happen to put this into the
particle end this doesn't this doesn't
fit
whatsoever adversary must learn to push
the good Agent away from the
landmark I don't know if I want to do
modifiable objects in the terrain for
something this
simple like pushable objects I think I
could do some sort of Chase type thing
simple
reference yeah these are like there are
too many ideas in here because this is
multi-agent but this is also like
communication and deception and
cooperation there too many things going
on in
here like to call this simple reference
is is
bizarre um
landmarks yeah these could be made
substantially simpler and cooler at the
same
time what about this tag
environment Predator prey
okay green agents receive a negative
reward for being hit by the
adversary adversaries are
slower rewarded for hitting good agents
this we could
do we could probably do something that's
like very similar to
this and then what's this
one see a goal and go to it
that the way I have the observation
space constructed I could add targets to
the
environment and add like distance to
Target
potentially um or I could try to just
like add targets that you can see and
that the goal is like you know one of
the agents is going to be nearby the
target so if you see an agent going in
that direction you maybe you follow it
we try to get like some sort of flocking
type thing going
on I'll have to think about this as a A
small collection of
Ms okay so this run actually finished
quarter of this speed it should have
taken I'm assuming it didn't do very
well
yeah so I'll have to figure out what's
up with
that and um I will have
to come up with a list of environments
I mean I have like another little bit I
could start on that
ideas
multi-agent
particle and
tasks so we can do
um spread
out pretty easy
task agent start at center of the map
and need to move away from each other
that's very easy to implement the reward
function for efficiently as
well I can
do um
merge uh what is
it like
gather
oops agents start
at around
randomly romly around the
map to
move each other remember they can only
see locally so they don't actually know
where they are so this would be kind of
cool to see how they uh they go about
this
aial well I guess easy would be to just
call it Chase
rewarded being near other
agents West
are being far
away that's a really simple one
we probably should have like some sort
of simple targeting en
right I'm thinking about the observation
space like if you're going to be able to
see the
landmarks if I put landmarks you have to
be able to see
them which means I have to change the
observation space a little
bit maybe an ant colony environment
agents have to spread out to find
resources and bring it back to
base have to add a fair bit to the
environment to support that type of a
thing I could definitely go find
resources is definitely one I could
do bringing back to deposit at base
maybe I'm the thing is I'm trying to
get I want to cover like a few different
types of M's maybe I should have started
that I should have been like types of M
I want to
cover types of M's I want to cover right
we want to have
like we want like tunable
difficulty uh you know dense
sparse reward cooperative
competitive
um sanity check
environments and I'm going to put like
hard sanity check
environments so the idea is I want like
some environments that you can see you
know if your code is any good they
shouldn't be trivial they should be
environments that like take a little bit
of training to solve you know things
that maybe you have to train for 100 Mil
few hundred million steps which is a few
minutes on uh given how fast they are
you know some slightly non-trivial M's
that will test like some sort of
visually compelling result I want there
to like you to look at the trained
policy and see some sort of like ah yes
they've learned to accomplish this task
It looks interesting you know my uh my
algorithm has been sanity checked
against this and it's like better than
oh yes it solves cartpole right
something a little bit more interesting
than
that and then because they're discreet
and they they also have to be discret
environment I mean every environment
ever like comes down to resource
collection of some type just like go-to
resource or
I could put
a I could technically add a resource
layer to this environment that wouldn't
be
hard I could add a continuous resource
layer to this
environment that'd be kind of cool
actually I could like Pearl and generate
uh some resource Maps or
whatever though actually that might be
slow having to Pearl and generate the
resource map every
reset you could use the same map every
reset and then just like have multiple
Ms and when be
bad and then that would give you like
some some interesting
stuff a good thing to figure out would
be how many of these environments I want
there to
be yeah it does sound kind of cool I
also I want to figure how many
environments I want there to be as well
like I think no fewer than four and no
more than
eight is a good number you should be
able to like you know run all of these
environments on like a 4090 whatever all
these environments you should be able to
train them to like successfully in like
half an hour
max like all of them
together so I got to be selective
here they need to range from
very trivial to like actually that's
kind of cool and kind of hard and like
maybe more interesting than
Atari the snake environment was kind of
like that for
me
right so I have to think of some cool
stuff I can do with this I have this
engine it's actually kind of powerful
because it lets you do mixed well it
lets you do the same tasks discreet and
continuous oh that's important since
they're discreet and continuous I
probably want to go on the lower side so
you can do both so I think I only want
four or five of these
environments one good approach is always
to grab
like really souped up versions
of uh classic task
so like classic tasks are
foraging and predator and
prey those are two classtic
tasks I think those should be two of
them so we want like something that's
like
foraging oops and something that's like
Predator
aray those are the two ones that
everybody keeps going back to
always myself included
so foraging task could
be you know
start start at the
center spread out and eat all the
food doesn't have to be purely
Cooperative it's kind of competitive in
some sense right
because each agent is greedily
maximizing its own reward
yeah Predator prey I'd say is um it's
kind of a mixed Cooperative task because
like you can learn stuff like
encirclement and such
but the thing is you can't just like you
can't have a thousand agents and just
like add up the reward for like all 512
predators and all 512 prey like they're
not going to learn anything cuz they
need to be able to credit assign their
own
actions so maybe we'll come up with like
a way to like partially share rewards I
think that trying to get some sort of
like
cooperative Predator prey like in circle
Behavior or whatever would be
be I don't know what the starting
condition is going to be but you know
some agents want to be near others
others want to not be
near
others reward sharing does want to you
want to Define reward sharing as an
option at the environment level because
otherwise you stick it into the
algorithm code and it's like it's a
complete nightmare because you're trying
to figure out which agents need to be
shared reward across like vectorized
environments to pain place to do it is
in the environment
rapper I have a cool idea for an
environment but I don't know if it makes
any
sense um I think I've seen stuff like
this before to be fair we could do
like um optimize or
whatever
optimize like uh start on pearlin
landscape
for uh consum based
on on
N resource
quantity T
penalized for being near other
agents so if you like think of you start
on like some landscape right where like
low is low reward highest high reward
like some pearand
map like one of these pearand map so
like white is high reward black is low
reward that might be a cool way to like
get agents to explore a bunch of
different local Optima
I don't know if this one is worth adding
though because it's more complicated and
I don't know what it gains
us forging and the Predator play pray
one are Classics I need to come up with
like two more though two or three more
that are
good so the chase one is
good what about the spread and gather
kind of a special case of Predator
prey all predators are all prey
maybe well not really
need to come up with like a couple more
good ones of these it's
4:30 let me just check on when this make
sure I still have this meeting
reward for sticking to other agents and
moving away from others that's what
predator pre
is isn't
it oh actually no you're right there is
a there is a version of the thing that
you just said that makes a lot of sense
um
so like group up or whatever group up so
you have like several different types of
Agents must be with own group away from
others
you know the Shameless self-promotion
one would be to do puffer
lib
uh like agents assemble to spell out
puffer
lib or star puffer
lip or buy McDonald's or whatever get
fun it's kind of a good sanity check
environment honestly
check how do you define the formation
I don't know I'd come up with like some
you know text to positions raster or
something right I'd probably what I do
is I just go open like paint or whatever
draw or like put the text in save it as
a bit map something dumb like
that wouldn't be that hard
just like start all the agents at the
top of the map and then they learn to
like Cascade down and fill in the
letters pretty basic but it would be
nice I mean it would be a cool ad
right you'd probably need to have the
rewards in the observations for it to
work which is
cool I think this is a decent start you
know um I may or may not stream stuff
tomorrow I've got morning meeting and
then I might just take tomorrow or at
least most of tomorrow to just like fix
up some stuff around this
project
um and then maybe on Friday I will come
back and see if I can like really get
all these things implemented and start
training on them properly there's a lot
that could be done here I mean
technically it would be possible like I
could potentially try to even get uh one
policy to do all these tasks
simultaneously that would be really
cool and there's also just the Street
versus continuous there's a lot of stuff
here like this is actually a very nice
environment um this would be a very good
test
Suite
so it's
4:36 I got to get ready to go to this
meeting uh I got to answer a couple
things let's just check the uh right
real quick uh folks if you're watching
this and you have not started puffer lib
just drop the thing of star helps me out
a whole ton working fulltime on just
exercising reinforcement learning and uh
this is the main project behind
it thank you to whoever that
and it's pretty funny to me that so this
thing is at 20 this is like an actual
High effort article that has some cool
stuff in it on RL
hardware and then my super clickbait low
effort post that took me like 20 minutes
to write uh while I was half asleep is
at
248 so thanks
algorithm anything from Sam oh cool
thing from Bones it looks like he beat
me to
it this looks continuous
right from scratch and C using rayb rayb
Rock
uh I wonder what he made the
observations cool stuff
though oh it's training live I see yeah
that's
sweet very
nice this stream did very well actually
that's
encouraging we'll definitely do more of
this I think that's all for now I got to
head out thanks for tuning in um More
Death probably on Friday oops bye